Big O says which function algorithm or code is best.
We learned that when it comes to good code we're concerned about readability and scalability and bego
allows us to measure the idea of scalable code.
And why do we care.
It's because there is no such thing as a free lunch.
You save time and money for a company.
You're a superstar knowing how much time your code takes how much memory it uses is very very critical.
Those are expensive things for a company or a product.
Now big-O is a very important concept that you won't find in your day to day job but it's something
that should always be in the back of your mind and good developers and engineers always have this knowledge.
That is why it is such a popular topic during interviews.
The ego is used to describe how efficient we can run her coat.
It saves companies a lot of money.
If people they hire know how to ride efficient code.
And in this section we learned about the idea of time complexity and space complexity how we can use
big-O to measure both things.
But each one is a tradeoff between the other and big-O describes the upper bound of our estimates.
We're always looking at the worst case scenario.
We want to be pessimistic and say what is the worst case scenario here with our code so we can be prepared
when the time comes.
Now time complexity and space complicity time is how long it takes the algorithm to run and space is
the memory that is required by the algorithm.
The important thing that we learned here is that big-O is about how you can scale it doesn't necessarily
mean that 0 an is better than 0 and square because scalability wasn't the only factor rate.
Readability is something that we are concerned with as well.
Sometimes readability Maybe matters more than scalability maybe time complexity is less important than
space complexity.
And that's something that you want to be careful of.
Now with this newfound knowledge premature optimization can be the root of all evil.
It's a famous quote that a lot of developers know sometimes optimizing for time or space can negatively
impact the readability of code.
So if you're working at a young startup for example might be more important for you to write code that's
easy to ship and perhaps easy to understand later.
Perhaps not take as much time to write the code and think about the code and its implications for long
term because maybe this startup has limited budget and needs things done fast.
That doesn't mean startups don't care about big-O analysis.
A great engineer at a startup or at a big company knows how to strike the right balance between runtime
space and of course readability.
The thing to keep in mind is that data needs to be sufficiently big to talk about DIGO it's about scaling.
If your function is linear time but the input is always let's say 7 items then the linear time algorithm
might be better than the constant time algorithm so it really really depends on your situation.
I introduced big-O here because we're going to be using it throughout this course and as we learn more
about data structures and algorithms we're going to learn more about bego and some other things we saw
in this graph that we haven't talked about but I hope you now look at the code differently and you had
a few aha moments throughout this section.
It's certainly my favorite section and a great topic that really made me a better engineer once I learned
this topic.
So I hope it did for you as well.
At the end of this all you have a way to look at code differently and when someone says hey how good
is my code.
You have a nice new way of looking at things and measuring things.
I'll see you in the next one.